
Create a layout that is mobile-first and responsive.
Make use of large images and attractive styling.
Incorporate a large primary image and a small rectangular image gallery.
Use the useRandomImage function to display a variety of images from the provided wealth of images.
Pitch
Cafe Purr is a next-generation Web5 art studio and vue.js design firm that focuses on creating visually stunning and innovative digital experiences. Our website launch page showcases our expertise in mobile-first design, seamless integration of images, and a user-friendly interface that makes our clients fall in love with our work.

Outline
Page Structure

Full-screen container with no header or footer
Large primary image as a background (useRandomImage)
Small rectangular image gallery
Call-to-action button (Learn More or Contact Us)
Styling

Use attractive and modern fonts
Choose a color scheme that complements the images and represents Cafe Purr's brand identity
Add subtle animations and transitions to enhance user experience
Responsiveness

Use CSS Flexbox or CSS Grid for the layout to ensure responsiveness
Employ media queries to optimize the design for different screen sizes
Test the design on various mobile devices to ensure compatibility and optimal user experience
Vue 3 Composition API

Use the Composition API to manage the useRandomImage function
Create reusable components for the image gallery and call-to-action button
Once you've completed the plan, pitch, and outline, you can proceed with designing the launch page for Cafe Purr using Vue 3 Composition API. Keep the mobile-first design as your top priority and test the page on various devices to ensure a seamless user experience.


Website Pitch:
Website: Cafe Purr
Framework: Vue 3 Composition API

Goal: A front page for our website that establishes a consistent, visually appealing and user interactive experience that holds throughout our website with a consistent, modular design.

Current project: build a vue 3 typescript composition api component that takes an array of strings and returns a dynmically generated website.

Usage:
<script setup lang="ts">
<style lang="scss">


Notes:
We are starting from a mobile-focused layout (though I am testing often on an ubuntu website). Most of the people looking at this site will likely be on a mobile device with a touchscreen. This is our main user experience to focus on.

Everything should be explicitly typed. We have a types file but it is not currently implemented.
Eventually we will tie this into user logins, but we need a base experience first.

Any page will have an image display, a short text, a large text, and at least one interactible flexible mobile-first design. It should be visually focused, and offer users a choice of where to go next. We will have a section Welcoming, About Cafe Purr (subsections: Kitten Rescue, Pokestop, Employees, homelab), Art Gallery (subsections: gift shop, redbubble), WonderForge(make art), WonderLab(projects), WonderChat (contact us, Livechat)

Large images and intuitive navigation menu, left right arrows and a pop-out accordion gallery attached below it highlighting each main section.
Selecting a main section creates a sublink gallery, of left-aligned vertically stacked avatar circles that expand with extended descriptions when clicked or highlighted. Each has a link or expands to another submenu. Any link that opens a new window should open in a containered iframe below our navigator.

Please, give five different ideas to evolve and meet this concept
